# python_api_challenge

This assignment consisted of two parts. The first part ("WeatherPy") made use of Python requests, APIs, and JSON traversals to collect and analyze weather data to answer the question, "What is the weather like as we approach the equator?" In the second part ("VacationPy"), the geoViews Python library and the Geoapify API were used to apply the weather data and produce map visualizations in a vacation-planning exercise. All work was completed in a Jupyter notebook with a combination of starter code supplied and additional code developed thereafer. For the WeatherPy part of this assignment, a Python script was written to visualize the weather of more than 500 cities varying in distance from the equator. Several plots were created to showcase the relationship between weather variables and latitude, and for each, a linear regression was computed. For the VacationPy part of the assignment, a map was produced to display a point for every city from the corresponding data frame in WeatherPy and the humidity for that city. For cities with defined ideal weather conditions, a new data frame for those was constructed with a list of corresponding hotels added as a further complement. From that data frame, another map was produced of those cities with an accompanying hover message for each.

WeatherPy
A list of cities was generated within ranges of latitude from -90 to 90 and of longitude between -180 and 180. Using a set of random combinations according to those latitudinal and longitudinal parameters and a limit size of 1,500, a total of 603 possible cities was initally identified and reduced to 577 through further parsing according to weather conditions. From the data frame established on that set of cities, a set of four scatter plots were generated comparing those cities' latitudes to temperature, humidity, cloudiness, and wind speed. Following that set, a series of eight additional scatter plots were produced, comprised of four pairs of northern hemisphere cities and southern hemisphere cities, comparing each sub-group's latitudes also to temperature, humidity, cloudiness, and wind speed. A regression line was applied to each scatter plot, and the results analyzed.

Temperature vs Latitude
The regression line for the Northern hemisphere dataset showed a strong negative correlation between latitude and temperature. For every increase in latitude in the northern hemisphere, the temperature decreased. In fact, the regression line suggested that for every 10 degrees of increase in latitude, there would be a 5.8 degree decrease in temperature. Conversely, the regression line for the southern hemisphere dataset showed a strong positive correlation between latitude and temperature. For every increase in latitude in the southern hemisphere, the temperature also increased. In fact, the regression line suggested that for every 10 degrees of increase in latitude, there would be a 10 degree increase in temperature.

Humidity vs Latitude
The regression lines for both the northern hemisphere and Southern hemisphere datasets showed positive correlations between latitude and humidity, though the correlation appeared much weaker for the northern hemisphere than for the southern one. In each hemisphere, as latitude increased, there was a rise also in humidity. The regression lines indicated a 1.5% increase in humidity for every 10 degree increase in latitude in the northern hemisphere and a 10% increase for every 10 degree increase in latitude in the southern hemisphere.

Cloudiness vs Latitude
The regression lines for both the northern hemisphere and southern hemisphere datasets showed positive correlations between latitude and cloudiness, though the correlation appeared weaker for the northern hemisphere than for the southern one. In each hemisphere, the regression lines showed that as latitude increased, there would be some increase in cloudiness. For every 10 degress of increase in latitude in the northern hemisphere, the regression line indicated a 1.7% increase in cloudiness. And a more pronounced increase was likely to occur in the southern hemisphere. For every 10 degrees of increase in latitude there, the regression line showed a 10% in cloudiness.

Wind speed vs Latitude
The regression line for the northern hemisphere dataset showed a positive correlation, albeit a weak one, between latitude and wind speed. For every 10 degrees of increase in latitude in the northern hemisphere, the regression line suggested only a 0.2% increase in wind speed. Conversely, the regression line for the southern hemisphere dataset showed a negative correlation, though a rather weak one, between latitude and wind speed. As latitude increased by 10 degrees in the southern hemisphere, the regression line suggested a 10% decrease also in wind speed.

VacationPy
From the WeatherPy exercise, a csv file was created of the dataset of cities that had been identified. That file was used in the VacationPy exercise to plot each city on a world map, identified by colored circles sized according to the cities' respective humidity levels. Through selection of preferred weather conditions and elimknation of cities with null values, the initial set of cities was narrowed down to a smaller set of 12. For that subset, the nearest hotels were identified, using a geoapify key. And from the resulting data frame, a new map was generated showing points for the cities with respective hover messages that displayed each citiy's longitude and latitude, city name, humidity level, identified hotel name, and country.